---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Diversity Statement

Advancements in an interdisciplinary field such as materials science and engineering require collaboration across diverse cultures and disciplines. However, materials science remains lacking in diversity in both industry and academia with 26% and 8% of materials engineering positions in the US held by ethnic minorities and women respectively as of 2021 [1]. In academia there is a similar proportion with 40% of materials-science PhDs earned by ethnic minorities and that figure dropping to 3% for African American or Hispanic students [2]. There is a large opportunity to improve this diversity by forming more welcoming department cultures as well as removing additional challenges imposed on women and minority students.  I strive to address these challenges through my interactions with students and service to my engineering department. I believe that a welcoming environment where students are properly supported with easily accessible resources and opportunities available to them and are encouraged to succeed is critical to the wellbeing of students of all backgrounds.

### My Experience with Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
<!---
Within the department of materials science and engineering at MIT, I was able to address the inequities experienced by women and underrepresented minority students by removing obstacles in their degree and career paths. Underrepresented students experience higher attrition rates in chemistry related fields such as materials science if they struggle in their introductory chemistry courses [3]. In response, I coordinated remedial tutoring sessions with the professor leading the largest introductory chemistry course at MIT of over 500 students. In these sessions held in the initial weeks of the semester, basic chemistry and math concepts were covered to fill in any gaps in prior knowledge and address common questions identified by the professor. As a result, the professor noticed a decrease in drop rate following the first test compared to recent semesters.
-->

As a graduate student at UT Austin, I continued my efforts to promote a culture of inclusion within the school of engineering and diversify the pipeline of future materials scientists and engineers with peer-led teaching assistant support programs piloted throughout the school of engineering and volunteering at the STEM clubs of majority minority elementary schools. Supported by the Center for Equity in Engineering, I initiated a semester-long support program within the Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) department with workshops and check-ins to enhance instructional support and sense of community and belonging in ECE by training teaching assistants (TAs) in inclusive learning practices. Furthermore, we engaged in a comparative study of the resources available to TAs in the Cockrell School of Engineering preparing us to enable TA communities in engineering departments outside of ECE. A TA’s impact on the classroom climate is significant so properly supporting and utilizing TAs can allow for better sense of belonging for TAs and improved learning outcomes for undergraduate students.

As a volunteer, I have conducted science demonstrations and made sure to keep the barriers that typically affect minority groups from entering STEM in mind including lower confidence in their technical skills and feelings of financial pressure [4]. I am careful to avoid stereotyping a scientist or engineer when interacting with the students. Instead, I aim to provide feedback on their effort as opposed to their innate abilities and supporting interactions with their peers encourages them to picture themselves as a future scientist or engineer. As a result, the students felt more confident with the idea of pursuing STEM as their vision of what a scientist or engineer changed to include them. Additionally, limited technology accessibility is another barrier minority students face [5] so planning demonstrations using easily available materials such as various household liquids to illustrate density and hydrophobicity is important to keep the students’ interest. I also use similar methods in explaining concepts as I do in class and connect concepts to everyday materials or situations the students may encounter. Doing so results in more inquisitive questions that show a level of confidence and desire to potentially study STEM.

### My Plans for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
As a junior faculty member, the most direct means of advancing DEI is through my interactions with students – namely my group and my teaching. As mentioned in my teaching statement, my interest to serve undergraduate students is primarily in introductory classes. Pairing that with my experience in providing resources and removing barriers for minority students provides me with the position to put effort in DEI at critical points in students’ careers.  

#### Diversify the pipeline of future engineers
I intend to take two concrete measures to improve the recruitment and retention of students pursuing a degree in engineering. First, I seek to improve the retention of minority students through following the Universal Design for Learning (UDL) framework in introductory classes I teach. As opposed to designing courses to be “weed out” classes, I aim to support student’s learning and curiosity for engineering by being approachable to meeting students, seeking out their point of view when answering questions, providing references to gain background knowledge, and connecting the topic on hand in contexts applicable to students with diverse backgrounds. In doing so, I aim to create an explicitly inclusive class climate that can support any student. 

Second, I plan to conduct outreach through existing K-12 outreach programs such as an NSF Materials Research Science and Engineering center or seeking funding through the university outreach center to initiate and support workshops and presentations for science teachers and educators. This entails supporting the leading instructor at the K-12 school by providing them with activity ideas and grant writing help, giving talks to discuss my background and career path, and recruiting undergraduate and graduate students to volunteer in the outreach sessions.  Furthermore, I can use outreach to build a diverse research group by increasing the diversity of PhD applicants. I plan to visit colleges and universities which may not typically send students to PhD programs in materials science such as those without an undergraduate materials science major and advertise opportunities in graduate school by giving talks on my research and the cutting edge in the field.

#### Build a culture of inclusion within my department
As a faculty member, I will have the opportunity to welcome students into an inclusive environment as they take the introductory courses I teach, and putting effort into ensuring they feel support after leaving my classroom. This means sharing my resources I use for inclusive teaching to others in the department encouraging them to follow similar practices and making myself available to students as a resource for advice beyond my classroom. My outreach and service can extend beyond K-12 programs and into other classrooms within my department as I would be happy to be a guest speaker for other instructors and play an active role in shaping the curriculum.

Finally, I will support the efforts of students who seek to advance DEI in initiating and organizing DEI focused student groups and events. I will meet with these students regularly to have conversations around DEI and draw on faculty resources to help them achieve their goals. Having seen the benefits a faculty advisor can provide my student organizations; I welcome the opportunity to be a mentor to excited unviersity studetns. A department culture where students feel supported and empowered to become champions for DEI creates a positive cycle benefiting the department and students of all backgrounds.

References:

[1]	Rick Fry, Brian Kennedy, and Cary Funk STEM Jobs See Uneven Progress in Increasing Gender, Racial and Ethnic Diversity Pew Research Center. April 1, 2021

[2]	Boerner, L. Diversity: Structural approach. Nature 515, 597–598 (2014). 

[3]	R. B. Harris, M. R. Mack, J. Bryant, E. J. Theobald, and S. Freeman, “Reducing achievement gaps in undergraduate general chemistry could lift underrepresented students into a ‘hyperpersistent zone,’” Science Advances, vol. 6, no. 24, p. eaaz5687, Jun. 2020

[4] 	J. M. Smith and J. C. Lucena, "Invisible innovators: How low-income, first-generation students use their funds of knowledge to belong in engineering," Engineering Studies, vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 1-26, 2016, doi: 10.1080/19378629.2016.1155593.

[5]	Ethnic Diversity in Materials Science and Engineering, A Report On The Workshop On Ethnic Diversity In Materials Science And Engineering. December 9, 2012
