---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Statement of Teaching Philosophy 

Teaching introductory science and engineering courses and mentoring students at MIT and the University of Texas at Austin has illustrated the importance of developing critical thinking for students to not only succeed in their field but also to understand the societal implications of their work. I have learned that to successfully do so, instructors must be able to apply their material to real world examples that are broadly accessible, improve their ability to effectively communicate, and provide a supporting and curious environment.
Thus, the questions I ask myself when preparing for class are the following:
1.	What is the bigger picture question towards which the students can apply this lesson?
2.	How do I expect the students to communicate what they’ve learned?
3.	Am I encouraging inclusivity where students feel safe to engage and ask questions?
4.	Do students feel safe to engage and ask questions?

These four questions help me design teaching strategies and assessments, so my teaching philosophy carries over into the classroom. 
An effective teacher should make the topic of the classroom accessible so that students can connect the lesson to a real-world problem. In the recitation sections I lead, I take simple materials science concepts and place them in larger contexts, engaging students and showing them the impact of what they are learning. By connecting the topic to real world examples in as many situations as possible, whether it be lectures, assignments, or explaining a concept in office hours, I can provide a concrete example which the students can draw back on for long-term learning. In explaining balancing chemical equations, I describe the chemical equation related to the production of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) from old refrigerators which was responsible for destroying the ozone-layer. In framing homework or quizzes as a case study where a tangible engineering problem must be solved, students will develop problem solving skills more relevant to their future engineering endeavors. The case studies introduced in the formative assessments will be concluded in exams which incorporate concepts taught by the case studies. Utilizing a summative assessment using the same theme as the formative assessments allows students to better prepare for the exam and helps me to better track their learning.

Instructors must ensure that their students are able to interact among themselves and effectively communicate their understanding of course material. Thus, I am committed to making communication a key part of the class, ensuring that as a teacher I set a strong example of communication in the classroom including effective explanations in lectures and encouraging interaction from students with myself and with each other. I have found that even in informal instructional settings such as office hours, allowing students to discuss questions amongst themselves before they approach me with their question helps them better identify the issue at hand through a different viewpoint of the topic. An example of developing better communication I like using is asking for the most succinct method of answering questions when designing an assessment such as a quiz or exam. When asked for an explanation why certain wavelengths of light cannot excite an electron across a bandgap with either a diagram or two sentences or less, the student is made to condense their understanding and convey it so that it is clearly understood. Additionally, offering an alternate method to explain the situation aside from written language can accommodate students with different perspectives of the material. Using these kinds of assessments encourages students to better understand and be more excited about the course material, as they will be more equipped to share their knowledge.

An effective teacher fostering this environment should ensure that it is inclusive and embraces diversity. Diversity is not confined to socioeconomic or ethnic status, but also in thought and learning abilities. Harris has shown that poor experiences in introductory chemistry courses have a disproportionately large impact on the career paths of underrepresented students [1]. As an underrepresented minority I can speak firsthand about the impact my introductory courses had on my career path as I was exposed to scientific career paths and made to feel capable of pursuing them. In addition to providing a diverse range of examples when connecting real world problems, I also worked to provide a supportive learning environment. I would briefly review any required knowledge and offer additional resources they need. As a teaching assistant, students in my classes reported that I made the course accessible and generated their interest in materials science.

A classroom that encourages students to reflect upon the societal impact of their studies and encourages the development of communication requires students engaging in the learning process by asking questions. I have done so using assessments framed as case studies or connecting topics concerning a bigger picture while taking moments to prompt students with the questions they could be thinking about in context of the problem. I found that using low stakes assessments such as participation graded discussions and short problem sets, generated a curious learning environment, and allowed for students to better engage with the course material often leading to studying related topics outside the scope of the course. Furthermore, this method provides frequent feedback on the students’ understanding of the concepts.
Through mentoring and interacting with many learners in diverse student bodies, I have learned that each student’s unique background contributes to the enrichment of higher learning. As a teacher, I hope that students who take my introductory materials science class or any course I teach, regardless of if they end up pursuing a career in materials science, develop skills that allows them to build bridges across society and effectively communicate across it.

References:

[1]	R. B. Harris, M. R. Mack, J. Bryant, E. J. Theobald, and S. Freeman, “Reducing achievement gaps in undergraduate general chemistry could lift underrepresented students into a ‘hyperpersistent zone,’” Science Advances, vol. 6, no. 24, p. eaaz5687, Jun. 2020

[2]	F. Gino, “The Business Case for Curiosity,” Harvard Business Review, Sep. 01, 2018. [Online]. Available: https://hbr.org/2018/09/the-business-case-for-curiosity

[3]	H. L. Roediger and J. D. Karpicke, “Test-Enhanced Learning: Taking Memory Tests Improves Long-Term Retention,” Psychol Sci, vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 249–255, Mar. 2006, 
